//report on types of Blockchains 

1. Public Blockchain
These blockchains are completely open to following the idea of decentralization. They
don’t have any restrictions, anyone having a computer and internet can participate in
the network.
 As the name is public this blockchain is open to the public, which means it is not
owned by anyone.
 Anyone having internet and a computer with good hardware can participate in this
public blockchain.
 All the computer in the network hold the copy of other nodes or block present in the
network
 In this public blockchain, we can also perform verification of transactions or records


2. Private Blockchain
These blockchains are not as decentralized as the public blockchain only selected
nodes can participate in the process, making it more secure than the others.
 These are not as open as a public blockchain.
 They are open to some authorized users only.
 These blockchains are operated in a closed network.

3. Hybrid Blockchain
It is the mixed content of the private and public blockchain, where some part is
controlled by some organization and other makes are made visible as a public
blockchain.
 It is a combination of both public and private blockchain.
 Permission-based and permissionless systems are used.
 User access information via smart contracts
 Even a primary entity owns a hybrid blockchain it cannot alter the transaction


4. Consortium Blockchain
It is a creative approach that solves the needs of the organization. This blockchain
validates the transaction and also initiates or receives transactions.
 Also known as Federated Blockchain.
 This is an innovative method to solve the organization’s needs.
 Some part is public and some part is private.
 In this type, more than one organization manages the blockchain.



Blockchain Technology Use Cases


Here are the hottest Blockchain technology use cases categorized under specific
industries/applications:
1. Internet of Things (IoT)
The Internet of Things (IoT) industry is growing rapidly with billions of connected
devices. The latest forecasts suggest that by 2030, there’ll be 50 billion devices in use
globally. As this number continues to grow, it will increase vulnerabilities as hackers can
easily breach your data through a single connected device. By integrating Blockchain
technology in IoT devices, the possibility of data breaches can be reduced to a great
extent.
Use cases:
HYPR (IoT/Cybersecurity)
HYPR takes cybersecurity to the next level by combining smartphone technology with
the highly secure FIDO token. This is the secret behind its True Passwordless
Authentication feature. Through its decentralized credential solutions and biometric
authentication, HYPR makes IoT devices tamper-proof.
Xage (IoT/Cybersecurity)
Xage boasts of being the world’s first Blockchain-based cybersecurity platform
exclusively for catering to IoT firms functioning in energy, transportation, manufacturing,
etc. Xage’s technology can handle and manage billions of devices simultaneously. It
extends zero trust identity, data security, and local/remote access for physical and
digital operations in the cloud, OT, and IT.
2. Money Transfer
Money transfer and payment processing are the most excellent Blockchain technology
use cases. Blockchain tech enables lightning-fast transactions in real-time. This has
already transformed the BFSI sector for good as it saves both time and money (mostly
eliminates transaction fees charged by banks/financial institutions).
Use cases:
Circle (FinTech)
Circle uses USD Coin (USDC), the fastest-growing regulated Stablecoin, to help
individuals run and establish their internet business. The platform offers around seven
cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin, Monero, Zcash, etc.). Every month, Circle handles over $2
billion in cryptocurrency investments and exchanges.
Chainalysis (FinTech/Cybersecurity)
Chainalysis offers Blockchain data and analysis reports to financial institutions,
exchanges, and government agencies in 40 countries across the globe. Essentially, it
focuses on helping institutions monitor cryptocurrency exchanges. Chainalysis’s
compliance and investigation tools enable you to monitor and identify fraudulent
transactions, money laundering, and compliance violations, thereby building a reliable
Blockchain-based econom


 In this few people are allowed to participate in a network within a
company/organization.